### 2. Successive Wins

To encourage Elmer's promising tennis career, his father offers him a prize if he wins (at least) two tennis sets in a row in a three-set series to be played with his father and the club champion alternately. 

Elmer can choose one of two possible playing orders:

1. **Father-Champion-Father**: Elmer plays the first set against his father, the second set against the club champion, and the third set against his father again.
2. **Champion-Father-Champion**: Elmer plays the first set against the club champion, the second set against his father, and the third set against the club champion again.

It is known that the champion is a better player than Elmer's father.

Which series should Elmer choose to maximize his chances of winning at least two consecutive sets?

#### Solution:

Series 2 (**Champion-Father-Champion**) is correct answer.

1. Proof by equivalent restatement of the problem:

First notice that winning at least once against both, the father and the champion, is in both series an equivalent condition to Elmer winning 2 consecutive sets:  
###### Lemma:
In both series it is the case that: 
Elmer wins at least 2 consecutive sets  if, and only if, 
Elmer wins at least once against the champion and at least once against the father.

In both series Elmer plays each player once and then gets another chance to beat one of the players.
In series 1. he gets another chance to beat the father.
In series 2. he gets another chance to beat the champion.

So the choice between series 1. and series 2. is the choice of which player Elmar wants get another chance at beating.

Formulated this way, it seems obvious, that getting another chance at beating the stronger player, gives a higher probability to win against both, than getting another chance at beating the weaker player.

So series 2. should be the right answer.

We can also calculate the probability more **formally**:

2. Proof by calculation:

What would be the probability that Elmer wins at least 2 in a row in the 
**Father-Champion-Father** set?

There are $2^3=8$ possible outcomes of the plays.
Let $x_1 x_2 x_3 \in \{0,1\}$ , where $x_i=0$ means, that Elmar lost the $i$-th set and $x_i=1$, that Elmar won the $i$-th set.
Let $f$ be the probability that Elmer wins against his father and $c$ the probability that he wins against the champion. All we know is that $c<f$.

The Probability that Elmer wins 2 consecutive sets is:
$P(110)+P(011)+P(111)$

1. For the first series that would be
$P(110)=fc(1-f)$
$P(011)=(1-f)cf$
$P(111)=fcf$

$P(110)+P(011)+P(111)=$
$fc(1-f)+(1-f)cf+fcf=$
$fc((1-f)+(1-f)+f)=$
$fc(2-f)$

2. For the second series that would be the inverse (with the roles of f and c flipped)
$cf(2-c)$

So we just have to check which one is larger.
Since $f>c$ we have $2-f < 2-c$ and thus
$fc(2-f)<fc(2-f)$.

So the second series gives Elmer a higher chance of winning.
$\Box$
